Myanna Harris
Kristina Spring

HW 7

Log

- Formatted output using tabulate
- Made dictionary for meaning of values of the mushroom data
- Separated making sets and making rules from those sets
- Making the sets was not too hard because we had information from class
- Making the rules, we used itertools to help get all combinations of the items
- We had trouble with getting indices to be correct when dealing with the 
    multi-layered lists
- Making the rules required we use an iterator instead of immediately storing 
    information in lists because it would cause a memory error
- 
- The titanic dataset does not take very long
- The mushroom dataset takes a lot longer
    - This makes sense since it has so many more attributes and therefore
        more combinations

Findings from rules:
    For Titanic, the rules with the highest support and confidence related to 
Adult females surviving.  This makes sense to us, since often women were given
priority on lifeboats.  Lowering the support brings most rules to include the
age being adult, which makes sense since most people on the Titanic were adults,
so there is still confidence there.  It's hard to compare these rules to HW4, 
since there are no similar rules or analysis of relationships between attributes
to compare to.  HW5 can be compared to some, but most rules with good confidence
 and support don't have survival as the right hand side.  The rules that do - 
adults and females surviving - make sense in relation to the rules created in 
HW 5, which have all female adults surviving.  The HW 5 rules have barely any
men surviving, only men of the second class.
    For the mushroom dataset, we initially only used the Edibleness, Cap-color, 
Odor, and Habitat attributes.  The most confident, supported rules were about 
edible mushrooms having no odor (and vice versa), Edible mushrooms having the 
woods as a habitat (and vice versa), Poisonous mushrooms having a foul odor 
(and vice versa), Mushrooms from the woods having no odor (and vice versa), and 
edible mushrooms from the woods having no odor.  The rules with the highest 
confidence were about cap-color, but the support was low.  No rules had support
higher than 50%.  The rules with the highest support were about edible mushrooms 
having no odor (and vice versa) and mushrooms from the woods being edible.
    Adding more attributes to the mushroom dataset makes it take more time to 
compute all the rules.  The initial attributes we used were Edibleness, 
Cap-color, Odor, and Habitat attributes.  Adding Cap-shape and Cap-surface 
didn't provide many rules reaching minimum support of 0.10 and minimum confidence 
of 0.70.  Adding bruises was a bit more interesting, showing that if the 
mushroom is edible it is likely to have bruises (and vice versa), if the 
mushroom is poisonous it is unlikely to have bruises, if the mushroom is red it
is likely to have bruises, if the mushroom's habitat is the woods it likely has 
bruises, if the mushroom's odor is foul it likely does not have bruises, if the 
mushroom is edible with a convex cap-shape it is likely bruised, and if the 
mushroom is edible with an at cap-shape it is likely bruised.  Adding 
Gill-attachment, Gill-size, Gill-color, Stalk-shape, and Stalk-root greatly 
increased the time needed to make all of the rules.  It took long enough that we 
gave up trying to create rules with 12 attributes and decreased the attributes 
to Edibleness, Odor, Gill-attachment, Gill-size, Stalk-shape, and Stalk-root.  
This gave us a variety of rules - the one with the highest support was 
gill-attachment being free if the gill-size is broad (and vice versa).  Rules 
with the highest confidence mostly had to do with free gill-attachment or odor 
being foul.

Actual results for these things can be seen in the output file.
